2025 Season




                  Sophomore 6 Man Tackle Football Rules
GAME PLAY:
   1. The game will be comprised of 8 minute quarters.
   2. Down and distance is 15 yards for first down.
   3. There must be a ‘clean exchange’ of the ball. The player who receives the
      snap must HAND OFF, PITCH, or PASS to another player before the ball
      passes the line of scrimmage.
   4. All players are eligible to catch a forward pass.
   5. A minimum of 3 offensive players must be on the line of scrimmage.
   6. A defensive player may not align head up nor initiate head-to-head contact
      with the snapper.
   7. Beyond the unique rules herein identified, game play will be governed by
      TAPPS 6 Man and NCAA football rules. Coach, player, and fan conduct will
      be governed by the SFL Flag Official Rulebook 2025.
The Clock will be stopped for the following reasons:
   1. Official time outs
   2. A requested team time out (3 per half, each lasting 1 minute)
   3. Following a touchdown until the receiving team on the following kickoff
      touches the ball
   4. Out of bounds & incomplete passes
   5. Delay of game will be called after 30 seconds, the penalty will be 5-yards
      and repeat the down.
   6. A losing coach MAY institute a continuous clock in the second half. If a
      coach decides to employ a continuous clock, it cannot later be reversed.
      During a continuous clock, the only time the clock will be stopped is for an
      injury. The winning team may not call time out during a continuous clock.
   7. Mercy Rule: If at any point after the end of the first half a team leads by 45
      points or more, the game is over.
2025 Season


SPECIAL TEAMS:
   1. Kick-off is from the 30-yard line. (20-yard line if after a safety).
   2. Receiving team is 15 yards from kicking line.
   3. Ball must travel 15 yards.
   4. There will be no rush allowed against a punt, PAT, or field goal attempt.
      Kicking team has 5 seconds to kick. Punting team may opt to forgo the
      punt and advance the ball 25 yards. If they opt to punt, they may not cross
      the line of scrimmage until ball has been kicked. Punts are returnable.
POINT SYSTEM:
   1. Touchdown is worth 6 points.
   2. PAT – Kick is worth 2 points, run/pass is worth 1 point.
   3. Field Goal – worth 4 points.
SUBSTITUTION / PLAY RULE:

   1. Substitutions: Due to the pace of this game and tendency for high scoring
      contests, substitutions are highly encouraged and can occur after any dead
      ball possession.
   2. Play Rule – Understanding game flow, all tackle coaches are still required to
      ensure all players participate and receive ample amount of playing time. If
      at any point in time, opposing coaches or SFL Board members believe a
      Coach or team is taking advantage of this honor system; then they are
      subject to council, game forfeit and/or game suspension.
      Note: SFL is a recreation/developmental tackle league. The best way to
      achieve this goal is allowing players opportunity during live game play.

REQUIRED and PROHIBITED EQUIPMENT:
     GAME BALL: Sophomore Division = K2
     PLAYER GEAR: approved helmet, mouthpiece, shoulder pads, pants, and
     shoes. Players may not have an exposed rigid splint or solid cast,
     regardless of composition. Players may not wear any audio (earphone,
     microphone) or video (camera) device, nor any other device that would
     receive, record or transmit audio or video. Please refer to the SFL Flag
     Official Rulebook for more guidance on the SFL communication and drone
     policies.
2025 Season


SPORTSMANSHIP: ZERO-TOLERANCE POLICY
The league expects coaches to be examples of good sportsmanship. If a
complaint is filed on a coach, it will be reported to the Competition Committee.
These situations will be handled case by case, depending on the seriousness of
the incident. The outcome of these complaints could result in a warning,
suspension from the season or removal from the league. Any Coach ejected by
the referee from a game will be suspended for one week on the first occurrence
and indefinitely on the second occurrence. In addition to coaches, the SFL
expects players and fans to maintain good Sportsmanship and Conduct, and
incorporates that section of the SFL Flag Official Rulebook.
Safety/Weight Considerations:
The SFL reserves the right throughout the season to consider and possibly initiate
rules that could restrict or limit a player’s ability to receive a handoff during
games. Such rules might become necessary if above average safety concerns
arise.

Field Dimensions:
